welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
Tune In And subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing Business Leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning that story how
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you Skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
Sam's business growth show I'm delighted
to be joined by Sam Jacobs today Sam is
the founder over at Revenue Collective
the premier private membership for
Revenue leaders at high growth companies
is also the host of the sales hacker
podcast his career cro with over 20
years experience in the New York Venture
back technology space Sam a very warm
welcome good to have you on the show
good to have a fellow Sam how are you
doing I'm great thanks for having me I'm
excited to be here
cool man looking forward to chatting
today
um so I think the focus today Sam is
gonna be on how money's actually made
um and a bit of controversial one for
everyone tuning in watching or listening
that it's not actually via the sales
department so looking forward to
chatting through that but before we get
into this spicy topic my friend
um anyone that does knows does not know
Sam Jacobs could you please give us a
quick snapshot into yourself and a bit
of background on on your good selfie Sam
sure well uh again like you said uh nice
to see another Sam out there in the
world
uh my my back I'm the founder of an
organization called Revenue Collective
Revenue Collective as you said is a
private membership Association for uh
Revenue operators so leaders of sales
marketing customer success and
operations primarily but not exclusively
at high growth companies we're all over
the world we're about 3 100 people all
over the world and
um so that's what I do during the day uh
uh I also host the sales hacker podcast
and association with the media
organization sales hacker I live in New
York City that's where I'm broadcasting
from right now I've got two elderly dogs
that I take care of and
um I've been here for 20 years and
before that I grew up overseas but home
base was the Washington DC area so
that's a little bit about me
top man good to hear good to have you
get your fellow dog lover uh to keep you
nice and busy cool so let's jump in
straight into it Sam
um let's talk about how money is
actually made and why it's not for
ourselves so first of all what does that
actually mean because as far as I know
we've got we've got to sell to get
Revenue over the line or am I away off
the market no I don't think you're off
the mark uh when I say uh money is not
made by the sales team I guess what I
mean is it's not made exclusively by the
sales team and I think there's a
misconception uh out there in the world
that uh the way that companies that
really and again for people that know me
I'm just talking my book here but um
that that hiring sales people and and
adding more sales capacity to your
company is the mechanism by which
Revenue grows and that's not again
that's not how money is made so how is
money made money is made first and
foremost with an incredible product that
people love and guess some of the sounds
fairly straightforward but I I think
that there's I think that the fact that
people have
misunderstood in my opinion uh that how
revenue is is fundamentally generated
has led to you know over investment in
sales team versus the marketing
organization it's led to increased burn
for venture-backed businesses and it's
led to uh frankly High turnover with the
revenue leadership at high growth
companies where the average tenure is
under 17 months and that's because
people assume that the way that you make
money is you hire a very expensive sales
leader they hire a lot of people on the
sales team and and then those people
produce revenue and in fact you can't
produce any Revenue if you don't have a
good product and you don't have meetings
to talk about that product with
potential customers and you don't have
meetings unless they have awareness and
interest in what you're doing and so
very straightforwardly
with you know the best reps with no
meetings but a perfect sales process
will get fired and a mediocre sales rep
with lots and lots of meetings but an
average process that maybe doesn't even
know how to close very well will
ultimately end up making the company
money so how does that work the the
atomic unit of money and revenue
generation is a meeting and so how do
you get a meeting with a customer how do
you get a phone call how do you get a
lead right how do you get interest and
that is that is a team sport as I said
it's a function of the product being
amazing and people telling their friends
the marketing organization creating
awareness and interest and creating
fundamentally pipeline however you get
pipeline but the pipeline is the set of
meetings that you've scheduled and then
the sales team converts those meetings
into Revenue but that is a that is a
supply chain and it is not just one
team's responsibility
got it so let's break that down into a
bit more detail Sam
um so we're talking about
which which I I love being a digital
marketer stroke um sales professional I
love the fact that we're not homing it
all the blame on on sales because I know
because I take the brunt of it even
though I'm part owner whenever things go
tits up whenever sales aren't as high as
they should be the rest of the team are
coming in on me like a ton of bricks
saying Sam what the heck's going on all
these leads have come in why have you
closed them so uh I'm at the brunt of it
and I know exactly how it feels for
anyone else tuning in that has a revenue
Target above their head
um so I love the fact that you've said
look there's a split a split to it
um now starting with an incredible
product so that I guess that's that's a
no-brainer way that um companies need to
have a decent product that there's
actually demand for
um that people actually want well um you
know I mean decent's probably it depends
you know my again my background is uh
kind of you know startups right so okay
venture-backed companies that are
looking to grow very quickly Venture
Capital backed and even if they're not
Venture Capital back there again that's
why we don't Define our the world of
Revenue Collective as uh venture-backed
companies where we Define it as high
growth most companies want high growth
so uh it's a pro it's a broad umbrella
but the point is that uh decent product
uh is actually from my perspective
especially at an early stage not
sufficient that is insufficient right
because you need better than decent
because of the fact that you've got to
look at uh again thinking about how how
companies grow profitably how they grow
sustainably uh you need a great product
and the reason you need a great product
is because it's going to be expensive to
get people's attention you know Aida
awareness interest decision action uh
it's going to be expensive more
expensive to get people's attention if
it's only decent versus great because if
it's great then people will tell their
friends and then you'll get leads when
you don't have to spend a ton of money
on sales and marketing that's how you uh
scale a great company as well the
fundamental the product itself is the
thing that drives growth and then from
there you layer on sales and marketing
to continue
in in your opinion Sam what determines
an average product from an incredible
one is it based on Research is it based
on asking customers or is it right it's
based on money math that's what is
that's how I would determine it that
you're looking for signals of product
Market fit and some of those some of the
time that's hard to decipher but if you
have a little bit of momentum you can
look at the math and the math is uh how
much money are you paying your you know
for customer acquisition costs CAC as we
call it right how much hang on to
acquire the customer versus how much
they're paying you and how long they
stick around and so you know all of
those financial metrics again I say this
a lot um so you know fans of mine which
is like mainly my mother uh we'll we'll
recognize this talk track but the point
is that
the the math the finance the
spreadsheets right like there's this
sort of this dichotomy in the world
where I come from where people feel like
the spreadsheets of the province of the
finance department and not the province
of the entire company and what I mean by
that is that the numbers are a separate
World from the emotional feeling that
you get from using the product but the
numbers on the spreadsheet reflect
emotions they reflect human behavior so
the point is
um if people are if you're spending a
ton of money and uh and you're not and
they're not paying you enough to so that
you can be paid back from that money in
a reasonable amount of time and more
importantly if they're leaving right if
they're churning that's a sure business
that's how you know it's not a very good
product
correspondingly right the way that you
know you're on to something is if you're
not spending very much money and yet
somehow people are knocking on your door
asking to be customers because how does
that happen right what what is the
process the mechanism by which you don't
spend money but people find you and want
to be your customer and give you money
well the mechanism is the few customers
that you do have are telling their
friends right there there are people
talking about your product or you are
talking about your product on a free
platform like LinkedIn and you're and
you've tapped into some kind of
zeitgeist that people want to reach out
to you even when you haven't spent a ton
of money that's how you know like the
definition of a great product for my
opinion is what is the payback period to
be honest
makes sense makes sense and that that's
a great point that you raised about
getting that inbound awareness when
you're not really actively marketing it
so that's that's always going to be a
bonus so let's let's pretend we've got
an incredible product and it's ready to
go to market and looking at the the team
side of things going back to that and um
how the revenue side of things is a team
sport so are we saying let's say we're a
very very small startup Sam we've
perhaps only got I don't know three or
four members of our team we've got a
sales rep we've got maybe a techie
that's developed this this let's say a
software as a service product it could
be a training piece of software it could
be a serum piece of software it doesn't
matter too much
um we've got a techie maybe we've got a
general manager
um and we've got
um an account manager someone that's
going to be utilizing with the clients
is it an equal spread is it 25 of
responsibility throughout the
organization there in terms of the
revenues that is that a right assumption
um I what I should have said is we've
got one marketer I forgot that so maybe
yeah
definitely the markets that's for sure
you know I don't know about like the
allocation of specific responsibility by
percentages but for example
um like here's a here's an example of
what I mean as it relates to how money
is made
um most Chief Revenue officers or VPS of
sales are paid
structurally the same way an account
executive is paid right so they are paid
50 of their OTE which is on target
earnings they're paid 50 as base salary
right then they're paid 50 as quote
unquote commission right commission
often paid uh most of the time quarterly
right so so you've got an executive
right and the purpose and again like
thinking about the supply chain of how
money is made how revenue is generated
how value is created it starts if you
have a shitty product a terrible product
yes you can try and beat some people
over the head to sell it they're not
going to stick around very long right
and if you have a great sales team but
no Pipeline and no meetings uh however
you get those meetings whether through
sales development or Business
Development or through a marketing
organization generating inbound but
whatever the mechanism if you have no
meetings you can't make money so the the
act of making the money is is again a
team sport now how is it is it 50 50 or
25 25 across four entities I don't know
the percentage what I can tell you is
that
one of the broken things in my opinion
is that a chief Revenue officer is paid
like an account executive and the chief
Revenue officer is sort of treated as if
as if they need to be that their
behavior should be short-term focused on
every quarter if they make the quarter
against a Target that they may or may
not have had a hand in creating then
they get their money and if they don't
then they get a dramatic haircut on
their money and that
um I don't feel like that's I mean I
know that that's not how people make
effective good long-term decisions so
when you're thinking about how do you
pay the executive team in my opinion my
opinion is that the entire executive
team is paid the same way which is that
everybody has a base salary that they
can live off of that they're not you
know scrambling to pay their mortgage or
their rent on or pay for groceries and
then everybody has an annual bonus for
the company hitting its targets and
those targets might be you know in a
venture-backed business probably Revenue
Targets in a different business maybe
margin targets or profitability targets
but that's sort of an example of what I
mean right that the existing status quo
assumes that like you just need a bunch
of kind of like cash hungry people and
you just point them in a direction and
they gobble up the the sales and if they
don't get it in the right way then you
fire them and if they do get in the
right way you pay them a lot but then
you raise the target the next quarter
maybe then you fire them and I'm saying
that like that's not actually how it
works and that's creates perverse
incentives that are not helpful to
helping a company grow
got it um I'm gonna throw a bit of a
curveball in the mix and you've just
raised an interesting point so if we've
got sales professionals like you said
they might have a basic and they might
have a monthly commission or a quarterly
commission Target
um if we're a business owner we might
just work off a base and then at the end
of the year we might take direct
dividends
um with marketers as like you say
they're going to be generating or
responsible for generating quite a chunk
of the inbound opportunities to then
feed the sales team demo requests or
lead requests or Consortium requests
depending on how we work
um do you think that marketers should
have their own targets and then should
be working commission to commissions on
on that sense as in you help our sales
team generate this many leads you get at
this commission generate the X money
leads you'll get this commission why
many leads to be at this commission do
you think that's something that should
be put into place I do not I think that
Mark that Marketing Executives and sales
Executives should be paid on the same
thing which is revenue whatever the
target is whatever the goal is of the
company that you're trying to hit I
think the revenue organization should be
paid the same way I think individual
mark marketers should not be paid on
commission I think they should be paid
again a good base salary uh and but I
think and then I think specifically
again you know there's attention right
now
there's a trend and the trend is towards
uh paying marketers and sales people
against Revenue targets I would say one
step away from that Trend might be to
pay marketers on qualified pipeline
there you know there are two
perspectives uh one perspective is no no
marketers should be paid on marketing
qualified leads or on leads because
that's the thing that they have under
their control and sales people should be
paid on closed Revenue but again I think
that and there are lots of people right
lots of people that say the tension that
fight that happens between marketing and
sales is very healthy for the
organization I don't have a my sense is
my sense is it's probably not that
healthy but I don't know uh and my sense
is again that everybody needs to be
organized around the the the goal line
and the goal line is profitable Revenue
generation so
um
so that's what I think
fair enough
um all right let's move this the
conversation a little bit towards um
Community because I know um Revenue
Collective and the the mission there is
is okay towards community and that
incentive so is community important
right now especially of what's what's
going on in terms of pandemic and things
around us is that something that's
important based for sales marketers and
business owners in general Sam if so why
it's important for every single
professional uh more important than it's
ever been why is that because the
scaffolding and the infrastructure and
support that companies have historically
provided is no longer there especially
in the United States where the average
as I mentioned the average tenure at
high growth companies for executives
Executives is 17 months right and the
people below them are changing jobs uh
even more often and it's not even just
for sales people right the labor market
has never been more fluid particularly
now with covid where people from all
over the world can get a job anywhere in
the world and where there have been
layoffs and where there have been other
companies that are doing well the point
is that in the year 2020
if we all want to have a career right
and this is a word and a an emphasis I I
use a lot a career right so a career is
20 years 30 years the end of the career
hopefully right the point of it is
you've got savings right you've created
wealth you've like you've made an impact
on the world you've achieved things and
personally you've achieved or fulfilled
whatever you think your your potential
is right you feel like uh whatever great
is inside of you has been brought out
and has been materialized and
articulated right so so all of that is a
lot and um in the old days uh when
average tenure was higher and when there
wasn't as much fluidity in the labor
market you could rely maybe on the
companies or more on the companies to
provide professional development to
provide resources to train you to be a
place where you could work for maybe 10
years in this modern world that's no
longer possible and so there needs to be
some kind of infrastructure some kind of
mechanism or support where
um
where people can stitch together a
career right where they they can access
all of the jobs that they know are out
there they can receive mentorship and
coaching they can
um they can uh connect with peers on
challenges that they're facing all of
these things are very difficult to do
and without a community they're nearly
impossible and so I again the world is
changing more quickly than it ever has
while there is less stability in all of
our personal lives than there ever has
been and as a consequence there needs to
be something and I think Community is
that thing Community is if we're not if
there's no structure that exists outside
of us then we will come together and
provide the structure back to ourselves
so that we can help and support each
other through the ups and downs and I
can tell you again that especially in
covid it's necessary not even just for
like the professional reasons but for
the for the loneliness reasons right for
the fact that like we're all at home and
as much as we love our families we need
and yes even though there's Zoom fatigue
and all of that like we need places to
go where we can talk about things other
than other than family stuff we need to
be able to talk about work stuff with
people that we don't work for or with so
that we can have a more open honest
conversation
and I guess it gives you another point
of view because I suppose if you're
talking to people that are already in
your organization then they might be
under similar opinions or they might
have an agenda and things like that so
is this about talking um to people from
different companies different
organizations Sam and getting their
point of view on perhaps issues you're
having in your business is it all
business related in terms of Revenue and
things like that or is it is a bit more
specific
well no it's what you said I think
there's there's a variety of different
things I mean fundamentally it's about a
uh you know and the thing that happens
most of the time is solving challenges
that you haven't encountered before or
where you just want more than one data
point right and you want more than one
data point quickly and you also want to
know that there's a vetted that the
person you're talking to isn't isn't
random right that that they've been
screened in some way that they have some
credible or relevant experience that's
helpful and that you can get that answer
quickly so how many people have opened
an office in Berlin before or Montreal
or how many people have compensated
their sdrs on uh meetings held versus
some point system that you might create
has anybody built a customer Journey
lifecycle map before those are all
questions that come up over the course
of the day you can think of the answers
on your own you're probably a smart
person the answer you come up with is
probably going to be related to you know
the quote unquote right answer but
wouldn't it be nice to have three four
five people weigh in that have done that
been there done that that can share
their insights and perspective so that's
one big chunk of things and those
conversations and questions are really
kind of tactical in nature and related
to work meanwhile there's a whole set of
other questions about who you are as a
human being at work
and again maybe you're a person of color
maybe you're uh you know you don't I
maybe you're non-binary uh maybe you're
a woman and you want a safe space to
talk about work stuff but work stuff as
it relates to your identity because
there aren't a million places to go to
have an open honest conversation about
what it's like to be a woman in the
workforce and so that's another need
that Community fills which is some
integration of your personal life and
your professional life and then of
course there's when uh when you hit you
know the the real speed bumps right when
you're when you're fired uh when you're
evaluating uh New Opportunities when
you're trying to figure out what should
you make and how should how much money
should you make and how should you
negotiate and so all of those things are
things that a trusted Community can come
together and help provide
and all these all the other communities
something that we can actually put
together ourselves or should we look for
organizations like yourself Sam
um well I I guess there's a few options
yeah feel free to plug if you need
you know I think that the bigger
question is you know of course people
can do it yourself obviously the benefit
to something like Revenue Collective is
uh it's Global right that we have a
structure that we've thought through all
of this before so you can do it on your
own or you can do it with somebody
that's been there done that and that has
created an infrastructure and a process
and a mechanism that makes it very very
easy and it makes not just getting help
easy but it makes giving easy because so
many people say I want to give back I
want to Mentor people but there's no
structure for it I don't know how to do
it or where to start and we make it so
that you can just plug in and all of
those things are at your fingertips but
I think the bigger distinction is
actually between free and paid
communities uh and I think some people
assume that Community should be free and
some people understand why it might not
be but that's I think perhaps a slightly
more interesting conversation because
what's not obvious I think to a lot of
people is that free communities are are
fundamentally compromised at their core
uh especially if they seek to grow
because if the members are not paying
something but that they're once but
there is the desire of the owners or
Builders of the community to generate
money well then then the members are the
product right definitionally if if
you're not getting money from them then
you're gonna get money from somebody and
the thing that somebody will want is
access to your members in some way shape
or form so it'll end up being
a job board it'll end up being sponsors
it'll end up being advertisers those
advertisers and sponsors will be paying
as you know as as we as we've been
talking about around the world what they
will be paying for is there is your
promise that through your community you
can manipulate the behavior of your
members in favor of whatever money
they're spending and so
um that's why I think people need to be
thinking about how do we create a new
structure a new kind of social media
platform a new professional networking
platform where we are the customers
right where where we are explicit the
customer you know there's nowhere to
call if you have a problem with LinkedIn
right the the phone number I couldn't
find a phone number they're not going to
give you a phone number because there's
100 million people or whatever on there
and they don't want us calling we're not
the customer right the advertisers are
the customer the the people you know
buying LinkedIn sales Navigator which is
a data scraping and spamming tool that's
the customer so wouldn't it be nice if
there was a network where we were the
customer where the company was building
stuff for us explicitly and where you
weren't wondering where the other
incentives were and that's why I think a
paid Community like Revenue Collective
is so valuable
and I guess it comes back to that thing
when you've put some some money into
something you're more invested into it
um so you've actually got to if I was to
join for example I've put money into it
I'd be more invested I'd be more
committed to actually wanting to get
something out of it and contribute
myself and I guess it's a age-old thing
really if it's free then you might take
it a bit for granted
um and again you're the customer right
like when you put money into it you get
to have it say
you know are you gonna have a say in
LinkedIn but they're not really
listening and uh and especially you know
and obviously it's even more true in
Instagram and Facebook where we're
really not the customer so yeah yeah
like I think that people sometimes
they misunder like you again like I said
it's not just that you're more invested
which is of course true and you're more
committed but it is that you get you get
a vote in a way that you don't get a
vote when you're part of something
that's free
awesome Sam really enjoyed this
conversation my friend I do like to ask
everyone that comes on if you could
recommend just the one digital marketing
channel that's going to help businesses
grow from today what would be your
choice sir
well uh what I just said now we're
standing in terms of marketing channel
uh you know I think linkedin's pretty
valuable I think if you have interesting
things to say and you have a point of
view and a perspective you don't even
have to pay to Market on LinkedIn you
can just
um begin to create interesting insights
and share those insights with the
community and pretty soon people will be
hearing about you and thinking about you
so
my you know the one that works for
Revenue Collective we don't pay we don't
spend money on paid acquisition and uh
and yet LinkedIn is by far the best
platform for for new customers and
members for us
good choice good choice We have one
you've been tuning into Sam's business
script show we'll be sit down with
Business Leaders experts and entrees
from around the globe we find out their
story how digital marketing's help them
along the way and their exclusive tips
and insights to help you Skyrocket
yourselves and your business Sam if you
could thank just one person either dead
or alive for having a positive influence
on yourself and your career who would
that be and why
well I would think my mother
uh both of my parents I love them both
my moderate Ambassador Susan Jacobs she
was a U.S ambassador to Papua New Guinea
Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands she was
also the special advisor for children's
issues uh which is a position created by
secretary Hillary Clinton uh and she was
the first person to occupy that position
and she helped secure and negotiate uh
International Adoption treaties and the
safety of children all over the world
and now she works for an organization
called ISS that is again focused on uh
reuniting uh parents that are separated
from their children uh cross-border
which is again an important issue so
she's just been an inspirational figure
she's an incredible uh incredible
executive and uh you know she's awesome
my mom I love her awesome done some
amazing work by the sounds of it yeah
she's she's incredible fantastic really
appreciate you coming on Sam please do
tell us a bit more about how people can
learn from you how people can connect
with you and feel free to plug your
podcast and your business sure uh you
can find me LinkedIn linkedin.com
forward slash the word in forward slash
Sam F Jacobs uh if you want to uh join
Revenue Collective there's never been a
better time we're in the midst of a
membership drive that we call awesome
October you can go to
revenuecollective.com and click apply
now and uh you know what why would you
want to do that you'd want to do that if
you want to accelerate your career if
you want access to a community of 3 000
people that are focused on helping you
and supporting you grow your career and
if you want uh assurity that over the
next 10 to 20 years you're going to have
a career that you can stitch together
that you're going to be proud of so that
you can realize uh your personal
potential
thanks very much Sam thanks for having
me Sam no worries dude and if you
enjoyed the show please do hit subscribe
on your podcast channel of choice be it
Apple podcast be at Spotify be it
Stitcher or YouTube wherever the heck
you get your podcast we interview
Business Leaders each and every week to
give the actual tips to grow your sales
and digital marketing cheers for tuning
in thanks for having me are you tired of
constantly hunting for new customers you
could be missing out on regular inbound
opportunities all because your website
isn't on the first page of Google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on Advertising but your website is
failing to convert all of your
hard-earned visitors into a consistent
flow of new customers
if you'd like to learn more about our
unusual approach that brings ideal
clients straight to you
connect with Sam Dunning on LinkedIn or
book a free 20-minute consultation by
webchoiceuk.com that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts